			For Immediate Release



	    Princeton University Library Hosts Conference
	    on Avant-Garde Magazines and Digital Archives



October 15, 2013.


On October 25th and 26th, the Blue Mountain Project, a program in the
Princeton University Library, will host a two-day conference entitled
"Remediating the Avant-Garde: Magazines and Digital Archives."  An
international group of speakers will explore the practical and
theoretical challenge inherent in creating digital facsimiles of those
late nineteenth and early twentieth century magazines that broke the
rules of content and form.

Like its subject-matter, the Blue Mountain Project defies easy
classification. "Blue Mountain embodies the digital humanities," says
Clifford Wulfman, Director of the Blue Mountain Project and
Coordinator of Digital Initiatives in the Princeton University
Library. "It is, first and foremost, a thematic research collection of
high-resolution images and multilingual, machine-readable texts; but
it is also a technological infrastructure comprising long-term storage
of preservation-quality digital assets, a large-scale XML database, a
web-based content-delivery system and a research module.  And, finally,
it is an organization that brings together curators and librarians,
and teachers and scholars of the humanities and the information
sciences for meaningful collaborative work."  Wulfman says the
conference is an opportunity for scholars, researchers, and software
developers to come together and share their methods and goals, and
guide the future development of Blue Mountain and other projects like
it.

On Friday, October 25th at 5pm in McCormick 101, Johanna Drucker will
deliver the conference keynote, entitled "Radical Remediation."
Dr. Drucker, the inaugural Breslauer Professor of Bibliographical
Studies in the Department of Information Studies at UCLA, is
internationally known for her work in the history of graphic design,
typography, experimental poetry, fine art, and digital humanities. In
addition, she has a reputation as a book artist, and her limited
edition works are in special collections and libraries worldwide.

See the conference website at
http://bluemountain.princeton.edu/conference for a full schedule of
events. The conference is free and open to the public, but attendees
are asked to register in advance at http://bluemountain.princeton.edu/conference/registration.
